# TUSA

TUSA(Transylvania University Scheduling Assistant) is an automatic scheduling website that attempts to remendy the stressful situation of students scheduling for their four years at college. I developed this project alongside four other people for me senior project. TUSA guarentees valid four year plan for students while also taking into account their interests when devising the schedule. Students can input their preferences of what classes and programs they want and do not want to take, what major they want to schedule for, and how many years they want to schedule for. TUSA several other features such as graduation progress, notes they can keep with other students and professors, the course catalog, and a personalized calendar. 

## Using TUSA 

Link to TUSA: http://www.cs.transy.edu/TUSA/js-login/front/build/

To use TUSA, start by making an account on the login page. The email portion of the account creation requires a transy formatted email, which is username@transy.edu. Once an account is made, you can login in. In order to generate a schedule, you must first declare a major in the plan & schedule tab in the navigation bar. You can also declare your preferences under the Account tab. Once this is done, you can go to the automatic schedule tab under plan & schedule and generate a schedule. 

### Pictures of TUSA

#### Developing TUSA

Our group was given three months to plan and design our project and an additional three months to implement it. We decided it would be best to split the goup into two pairs, with two people working primarily on the front-end and two people working primarly on the back-end. I worked on the back-end, which involed setting up the products database in MySql, the automatic scheduling algorithm in Python, and a Shell Script. Starting with the database, we were careful to use third normal form. This meant that things like each category of user preferences was given its own table. Everytime the user interacts with the website, such as creating an account, declaring a major, or setting their preferences, this information is saved in the database. During login, we also implemented a password hashing system to increase security. Therefore, user passwords are never saved in the database in a readable format. 

The automatic scheduler is a constraint-based forward and backtracking algorithm. It is forward checking to detect courses that will cause programs and remove them from the course list, dramtically reducing the number of recursive iterations. Additional constraints were added throughout the process which dramatically improved performance. If the user already took a certain course, or if the course is not offered a certain year, or if the user does not meet the prerequisites, then it would be removed from the course list. Every iteration of the algorithm creates an constrained course list and then it generates a list of potienal schedule solutions based on that list. For this list of schedule solutions, each is given a score based on how closly it alligns with user preferences. If the user requests a certain course and that course is in the schedule, then the schedule will have a higher score. The semester schedule with the highest score that is also a valid schedule will be selected to be added to the full schedule. If a semester is valid or not depends on the major and the current semester. For the current semester, a certain amount of general education requirements and electives are required for each semester to guarentee the user meets them all. For the major, the user has to take certain classes at certain times to guarentee they have all the prerequisites and can complete the major.  

Three plain-text files were leveraged to integrate the database, website, and algorithm. Whenever the algorithm is called from main, it starts by querying the database and writing information from the database to a file called usernameProfile1.txt. This file holds all relevant information the algorithm will need like the user’s degree, their class status, and all of their preferences. Throughout the duration of the algorithm however, it uses a second text file called usernameNewProfile.txt. This second text file is rewritien at the end of every semester. If the current semester was Fall, the next version of usernameNewProfile will have the current semester as Winter. The class status, current semester, current year, and list of taken classes all change in this file throughout the duration of the algorithm. The third text file is simply called username.txt. At the end of every semester, the chosen semester schedule is written to username. Therefore at the end of the algorithm, usernameProfile1 holds all the starting information, usernameNewProfile holds all the ending information, and username holds the resulting schedule. 

The Final part of TUSA's backend was a Shell scirpt. The algorithm was implemented to only run for one semester at time. It takes in a text file, and writes a semester schedule onto username.txt. Our Shell script was helpful because it allowed us to easily call the algorithm over and over again based on the output. It could call the algorithm a different numbers of times based on the status of the user or stop calling the algorithm if an error message is found in one of the text files. 

##### Challenges and Conclusions 
